\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename posix1003_1.info
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@c
@c   Master file for the POSIX 1003.1 Compliance Guide
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi
@include common/rtems.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS On-Line Manual
@direntry
* RTEMS POSIX 1003.1 Compliance Guide: (posix1003_1).
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS POSIX 1003.1 Compliance Guide

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS POSIX 1003.1 Compliance Guide
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS POSIX 1003.1 Compliance Guide
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for RTEMS @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@contents

@include preface.texi
@include ch01.texi
@include ch02.texi
@include ch03.texi
@include ch04.texi
@include ch05.texi
@include ch06.texi
@include ch07.texi
@include ch08.texi
@include ch09.texi
@include ch10.texi
@include ch11.texi
@include ch12.texi
@include ch13.texi
@include ch14.texi
@include ch15.texi
@include ch16.texi
@include ch17.texi
@include ch18.texi
@include ch19.texi

@ifnottex
@node Top, Preface, (dir), (dir)
@top RTEMS POSIX 1003.1 Compliance Guide

@menu
* Preface::
* General::
* Terminology and General Requirements::
* Process Primitives::
* Process Environment::
* Files and Directories::
* Input and Output Primitives::
* Device- and Class-Specific Functions::
* Language-Specific Services for the C Programming Language::
* System Databases::
* Data Interchange Format::
* Synchronization::
* Memory Management::
* Execution Scheduling::
* Clocks and Timers::
* Message Passing::
* Thread Management::
* Thread-Specific Data::
* Thread Cancellation::
* Compliance Summary::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, Overall Summary, Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@bye

