\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename bsp_howto.info
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@c
@c   Master file for the Getting Started (C) Guide
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi
@include common/rtems.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS On-Line Manual
@direntry
* RTEMS BSP-Howto: (bsp_howto).        BSP and Device Driver Development Guide.
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage BSP and Device Driver Development Guide

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle BSP and Device Driver Development Guide
@titlepage
@finalout

@title BSP and Device Driver Development Guide
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@contents

@include intro.texi
@include target.texi
@include makefiles.texi
@include linkcmds.texi
@include support.texi
@include adaintr.texi
@include init.texi
@include console.texi
@include clock.texi
@include timer.texi
@include rtc.texi
@include ata.texi
@include ide-ctrl.texi
@include nvmem.texi
@include network.texi
@include shmsupp.texi
@include framebuffer.texi
@include analog.texi
@include discrete.texi

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top RTEMS BSP and Device Driver Development Guide

@menu
* Introduction::
* Target Dependent Files::
* Makefiles::
* Linker Script::
* Miscellaneous Support Files::
* Ada95 Interrupt Support::
* Initialization Code::
* Console Driver::
* Clock Driver::
* Timer Driver::
* Real-Time Clock Driver::
* ATA Driver::
* IDE Controller Driver::
* Networking Driver::
* Non-Volatile Memory Driver::
* Shared Memory Support Driver::
* Frame Buffer Driver::
* Analog Driver::
* Discrete Driver::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, , Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@bye

