\input ../texinfo/texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename develenv
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c @smallbook
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-1997.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c

@c
@c   Master file
@c

@c Joel's Questions
@c
@c  1.  Why does paragraphindent only impact makeinfo?
@c  2.  Why does paragraphindent show up in HTML?
@c

@include ../common/setup.texi

@ignore
@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* RTEMS C User: (develenv).             The C User's Guide
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo
@end ignore

@c variable substitution info:
@c
@c @set RTEMS-LANGUAGE C
@c the language is @value{RTEMS-LANGUAGE}
@c NOTE:  don't use underscore in the name
@c

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@set edition 4.2.0-beta1
@set update-date 1 June 1997
@set update-month June 1997

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS Development Environment Guide

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS Development Environment Guide
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS Development Environment Guide
@subtitle Edition @value{edition}, for RTEMS 4.2.0-prerelease
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{update-month}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include ../common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@include intro.texi
@include direct.texi
@c @include compile.texi
@include sample.texi
@include utils.texi

@ifinfo
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top develenv

This is the online version of the RTEMS Development Environment Guide.

@c * Compilation and GNU Make Stanzas::

@menu
* Introduction::
* Directory Structure::
* Sample Applications::
* RTEMS Specific Utilities::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@end ifinfo
@c 
@c 
@c Need to copy the emacs stuff and "trailer stuff" (index, toc) into here
@c

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, RTEMS Specific Utilities Ada Language Specific Utilities, Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@contents
@bye

