\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename rgdb_specs.info
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@c
@c   Master file for the Getting Started (C) Guide
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS On-Line Manual
@direntry
* RTEMS Remote Debugger Server Specifications: (rgdb_specs).
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS Remote Debugger Server Specifications

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS Remote Debugger Server Specifications
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS Remote Debugger Server Specifications
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author Emmanuel Raguet and Eric Valette, Canon Research Centre
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@include intro.texi
@include revision.texi
@include objectives.texi
@include gdbinternals.texi
@include interfacing.texi
@include comm.texi
@include daemon.texi
@include conclusion.texi

@ifinfo
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top rgdb_specs

This is the online version of the RTEMS Remote Debugger Server Specifications.

@menu
* Introduction::
* Document Revision History::
* Objectives::
* A Rapid Tour of GDB Internals::
* Interfacing GDB with RTEMS as a Target::
* Communication with GDB::
* RTEMS Debugger Server Daemon::
* Conclusion::
@end menu

@c * Command and Variable Index::
@c * Concept Index::
@end ifinfo
@c 
@c 
@c Need to copy the emacs stuff and "trailer stuff" (index, toc) into here
@c

@c @node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, Installing GCC  AND NEWLIB, Top
@c @unnumbered Command and Variable Index

@c There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@c @node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@c @unnumbered Concept Index

@c There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@contents
@bye

