\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename FAQ
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@c
@c   Master file for the RTEMS FAQ
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS On-Line Manual
@direntry
* RTEMS FAQ: (FAQ).	               Frequently Asked Questions.
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS Frequently Asked Questions

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS Frequently Asked Questions
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS Frequently Asked Questions
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@include basic.texi
@include tools.texi
@include concepts.texi
@include build45.texi
@include bsp.texi
@include debug.texi
@include freesw.texi
@include embeddedinfo.texi
@include hwdebugaids.texi
@include projects.texi
@include endoftime.texi

@ifinfo
@node Top, Basic Information, (dir), (dir)
@top FAQ

This document is the RTEMS FAQ.  FAQ is an acronym for Frequently
Asked Questions and we sincerely hope that this contains the answers
to some of the questions most frequently asked about RTEMS.

Common questions have been divided into the following categories. 


@menu
* Basic Information::
* General Development Tool Hints::
* RTEMS Concepts::
* Building RTEMS::
* BSP Questions::
* Debugging Hints::
* Free Software that Works with RTEMS::
* Resources for Embedded Information::
* Hardware to Ease Debugging::
* RTEMS Projects::
* Date/Time Issues in Systems Using RTEMS::
@end menu

@c * Command and Variable Index::
@c * Concept Index::
@end ifinfo
@c 
@c 
@c Need to copy the emacs stuff and "trailer stuff" (index, toc) into here
@c

@c @node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, Installing GCC AND NEWLIB, Top
@c @unnumbered Command and Variable Index

@c There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@c @node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@c @unnumbered Concept Index

@c There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@contents
@bye

