@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2015.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@c
@c  The following puts a space somewhere on an otherwise empty page so we
@c  can force the copyright description onto a left hand page.
@c

@tex
{\parskip=0pt \hfill On-Line Applications Research Corporation\par \hfill
\TeX{}info \texinfoversion\par }
@end tex

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
COPYRIGHT @copyright{} 1988 - 2015.@*
On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).@*

The authors have used their best efforts in preparing
this material.  These efforts include the development, research,
and testing of the theories and programs to determine their
effectiveness.  No warranty of any kind, expressed or implied,
with regard to the software or the material contained in this
document is provided.  No liability arising out of the
application or use of any product described in this document is
assumed.  The authors reserve the right to revise this material
and to make changes from time to time in the content hereof
without obligation to notify anyone of such revision or changes.

The RTEMS Project is hosted at @uref{http://www.rtems.org}.  Any
inquiries concerning RTEMS, its related support components, or its
documentation should be directed to the Community Project hosted at
@uref{http://www.rtems.org}.

Any inquiries for commercial services including training, support, custom
development, application development assistance should be directed to
@uref{http://www.rtems.com}.

