@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@node Installation Procedure, Installation Procedure Introduction, Introduction Documentation, Top
@chapter Installation Procedure
@menu
* Installation Procedure Introduction::
* Installation Procedure RTEMS FTP Site Organization::
* Installation Procedure Unarchiving the RTEMS and GNU Components::
* Installation Procedure Installing a Cross-Development GNU Toolset::
* Installation Procedure Installing RTEMS::
@end menu

@node Installation Procedure Introduction, Installation Procedure RTEMS FTP Site Organization, Installation Procedure, Installation Procedure
@section Introduction

This chapter describes the process of installing and
configuring RTEMS and a cross-development environment based on
freely available tools and libraries.

@node Installation Procedure RTEMS FTP Site Organization, Installation Procedure Unarchiving the RTEMS and GNU Components, Installation Procedure Introduction, Installation Procedure
@section RTEMS FTP Site Organization

RTEMS is distributed only via anonymous ftp.

This section will discuss how to navigate the RTEMS
ftp site and unarchive the files in the RTEMS and GNU package
distributions.  All example commands will be given in a shell
independent fashion unless otherwise noted.

Throughout the rest of this manual
<RTEMS_distribution> will be used as the parent of components
within the RTEMS distribution.  For persons using the ftp
distribution found on the primary ftp site for RTEMS,
<RTEMS_distribution> are found under this directory
@uref{ftp://ftp.rtems.com/pub/rtems/}.  HTTP access to the
ftp site is available via @uref{http://www.rtems.com/ftp/pub/rtems}.

The archive files for RTEMS Release @value{VERSION} are found
under the directory <RTEMS_distribution>.  This directory
contains the files which comprise this relase as well as any
patches which may be required for other tools.

The complete source code and documentation set for
the C language implementation of RTEMS is provided.

@node Installation Procedure Unarchiving the RTEMS and GNU Components, Installation Procedure Installing a Cross-Development GNU Toolset, Installation Procedure RTEMS FTP Site Organization, Installation Procedure
@section Unarchiving the RTEMS and GNU Components

Many of the components of the RTEMS release are
"tarred, zipped" files and have the .tar.gz or .tgz extension.
The GNU zip package is required to unarchives these files on the
RTEMS ftp site.  If this package is not installed, the source
can be found in the files
@uref{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/gzip/gzip-1.2.4.shar} or
@uref{ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/gzip/gzip-1.2.4.tar}.  It may be
restored using a command similar to the following:

@example
@group
tar xvf gzip-1.2.4.tar

OR

sh gzip-1.2.4.shar
@end group
@end example

This will create a subdirectory gzip-1.2.4 in the
current directory.  Please examine the files README and INSTALL
and follow the instructions provided there.

[Note: The GNU tools follow a standard packaging procedure
They will unarchive into a directory based on the package name and version
number.  For detailed instructions on compilation and
installation of the GNU tools, please refer to the instructions for
each GNU tool.]

Files which have been "tarred, zipped" (i.e.  .tar.gz
or .tgz extension) may be unarchived with a command similar to
one of the following:

@example
@group
gzcat <file>.tgz | tar xvof -

OR

gunzip -c <file>.tgz | tar xvof -

OR

gtar xzvf <file>.tgz
@end group
@end example

NOTE: gunzip -c is equivalent to gzcat, while gtar is GNU tar.

Given that the necessary utility programs are
installed, any of the above commands will extract the contents
of <file>.tar.gz into the current directory.  All of the RTEMS
components will be extracted into the subdirectory rtems-@value{VERSION}.
To view the contents of a component without restoring any files,
use a command similar to the following:

@example
@group
gzcat <file>.tgz | tar tvf -
@end group
@end example

@node Installation Procedure Installing a Cross-Development GNU Toolset, Installation Procedure Installing RTEMS, Installation Procedure Unarchiving the RTEMS and GNU Components, Installation Procedure
@section Installing a Cross-Development GNU Toolset

This sections describes how to build and install the
FSF GNU tools for use as a cross-compilation system.  These
tools are used by the RTEMS developers.  Every effort has been
made to make these instructions accurate and complete.  However,
it is recommended that the individual doing the installation
read the appropriate installation notes for each of the tools in
the cross toolset.  This will help insure that there are no
special requirements for a particular host.

If the host and target processors are the same, then
it may be possible to use the host development tools.  An
example of this scenario is using a SPARC based workstation
to develop an RTEMS application for the SPARC processor.  Although
the native toolset is useable in this scenario, it is ultimately
more desirable to build a toolset specifically for the embedded environment.

Instructions for building a cross environment using the GNU
tools is provided in the crossgcc FAQ available from ftp.cygnus.com
in /pub/embedded/crossgcc.  It is recommended that the user following
these instructions.

After the cross development toolset has been built
and installed, it will be necessary to modify the environment of
each RTEMS application developer to reflect at least the path of
the newly installed cross development toolset.

The documentation for the FSF GNU and Cygnus tools is
formatted using TeX.  The RTEMS developers use TeX 3.14t3 to
format the manuals for their own use.  This document does not
contain instructions on the acquisition or installation of TeX
and supporting tools.

NOTE: For "UNIX" processors, the native compiler binary utilities
should be used.

@node Installation Procedure Installing RTEMS, Development Environment Status, Installation Procedure Installing a Cross-Development GNU Toolset, Installation Procedure
@section Installing RTEMS

For instructions on building and installing RTEMS, please refer to 
the file README.configure in the source distribution.

