\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename relnotes.info
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@c
@c   Master file
@c

@c Joel's Questions
@c
@c  1.  Why does paragraphindent only impact makeinfo?
@c  2.  Why does paragraphindent show up in HTML?
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi
@include common/rtems.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS On-Line Manual
@direntry
* RTEMS Release Notes: (relnotes).     Release Notes
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c variable substitution info:
@c
@c @set LANGUAGE C
@c the language is @value{LANGUAGE}
@c NOTE:  don't use underscore in the name
@c

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS Release Notes

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS Release Notes
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS Release Notes
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for RTEMS @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@contents

@include intro.texi
@include install.texi
@include status.texi
@include probrep.texi

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top RTEMS Release Notes

@menu
* Introduction::
* Installation Procedure::
* Development Environment Status::
* RTEMS PROBLEM REPORT::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, RTEMS PROBLEM REPORT, Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@bye

