\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename itron.info
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@c
@c   Master file for the RTEMS ITRON 3.0 API User's Guide
@c

@c Joel's Questions
@c
@c  1.  Why does paragraphindent only impact makeinfo?
@c  2.  Why does paragraphindent show up in HTML?
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi
@include common/rtems.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS On-Line Manual
@direntry
* RTEMS ITRON 3.0 API User's Guide: (itron).
                                       ITRON Guide
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c variable substitution info:
@c
@c Note: At the moment there is not an Ada interface to ITRON.
@set is-C
@clear is-Ada
@set LANGUAGE C 
@set STRUCTURE structure
@set ROUTINE function
@set OR |
@set RPREFIX RTEMS_
@set DIRPREFIX rtems_
@c the language is @value{LANGUAGE}
@c NOTE:  don't use underscore in the name
@c

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS ITRON 3.0 API User's Guide

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS ITRON 3.0 API User's Guide
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS ITRON 3.0 User's Guide
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for RTEMS @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@include preface.texi
@include task.texi
@include tasksync.texi
@include semaphore.texi
@include eventflags.texi
@include mailbox.texi
@include msgbuffer.texi
@include rendezvous.texi
@include interrupt.texi
@include memorypool.texi
@include fixedblock.texi
@include time.texi
@include config.texi
@include network.texi
@include status.texi
@ifinfo
@node Top, , (dir), (dir)
@top itron

This is the online version of the RTEMS ITRON 3.0 API User's Guide.

@menu
* Preface::
* Task Manager::
* Task-Dependent Synchronization Manager::
* Semaphore Manager::
* Eventflags Manager::
* Mailbox Manager::
* Message Buffer Manager::
* Rendezvous Manager::
* Interrupt Manager::
* Memory Pool Manager::
* Fixed Block Manager::
* Time Manager::
* System Manager::
* Network Support Manager::
* ITRON Implementation Status::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@end ifinfo
@c 
@c 
@c Need to copy the emacs stuff and "trailer stuff" (index, toc) into here
@c

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, , Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@contents
@bye

