@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@ifinfo
@node Preface, CPU Model Dependent Features, Top, Top
@end ifinfo
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems
(RTEMS) is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

This document discusses the SPARC architecture
dependencies in this port of RTEMS.  Currently, only
implementations of SPARC Version 7 are supported by RTEMS.

It is highly recommended that the SPARC RTEMS
application developer obtain and become familiar with the
documentation for the processor being used as well as the
specification for the revision of the SPARC architecture which
corresponds to that processor.

@subheading SPARC Architecture Documents

For information on the SPARC architecture, refer to
the following documents available from SPARC International, Inc.
(http://www.sparc.com):

@itemize @bullet
@item SPARC Standard Version 7.

@item SPARC Standard Version 8.

@item SPARC Standard Version 9.
@end itemize

@subheading ERC32 Specific Information

The European Space Agency's ERC32 is a three chip
computing core implementing a SPARC V7 processor and associated
support circuitry for embedded space applications. The integer
and floating-point units (90C601E & 90C602E) are based on the
Cypress 7C601 and 7C602, with additional error-detection and
recovery functions. The memory controller (MEC) implements
system support functions such as address decoding, memory
interface, DMA interface, UARTs, timers, interrupt control,
write-protection, memory reconfiguration and error-detection.
The core is designed to work at 25MHz, but using space qualified
memories limits the system frequency to around 15 MHz, resulting
in a performance of 10 MIPS and 2 MFLOPS.

Information on the ERC32 and a number of development
support tools, such as the SPARC Instruction Simulator (SIS),
are freely available on the Internet.  The following documents
and SIS are available via anonymous ftp or pointing your web
browser at ftp://ftp.estec.esa.nl/pub/ws/wsd/erc32.

@itemize @bullet
@item ERC32 System Design Document

@item MEC Device Specification
@end itemize

Additionally, the SPARC RISC User's Guide from Matra
MHS documents the functionality of the integer and floating
point units including the instruction set information.  To
obtain this document as well as ERC32 components and VHDL models
contact:

@example
Matra MHS SA
3 Avenue du Centre, BP 309,
78054 St-Quentin-en-Yvelines,
Cedex, France
VOICE: +31-1-30607087
FAX: +31-1-30640693
@end example

Amar Guennon (amar.guennon@@matramhs.fr) is familiar with the ERC32.

