@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@ifinfo
@node Preface, CPU Model Dependent Features, Top, Top
@end ifinfo
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems (RTEMS)
is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

This document discusses the ARM architecture dependencies
in this port of RTEMS.  The ARM family has a wide variety
of implementations by a wide range of vendors.  Consequently,
there are 100's of CPU models within it.

It is highly recommended that the ARM
RTEMS application developer obtain and become familiar with the
documentation for the processor being used as well as the
documentation for the ARM architecture as a whole.

@subheading Architecture Documents

For information on the ARM architecture,
refer to the following documents available from Arm, Limited
(@file{http//www.arm.com/}).  There does not appear to
be an electronic version of a manual on the architecture
in general on that site.  The following book is a good 
resource:

@itemize @bullet
@item @cite{David Seal. "ARM Architecture Reference Manual."
Addison-Wesley. @b{ISBN 0-201-73719-1}. 2001.}

@end itemize


