\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename filesystem
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c @smallbook
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-1998.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@c
@c   Master file for the Filesystem Design Guide
@c

@include ../common/setup.texi

@ignore
@ifinfo
@format
START-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
* RTEMS Filesystem Design Guide:
END-INFO-DIR-ENTRY
@end format
@end ifinfo
@end ignore

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@set edition @value{RTEMS-EDITION}
@set version @value{RTEMS-VERSION}
@set update-date @value{RTEMS-UPDATE-DATE}
@set update-month @value{RTEMS-UPDATE-MONTH}

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS Filesystem Design Guide

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS Filesystem Design Guide
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS Filesystem Design Guide
@subtitle Edition @value{edition}, for RTEMS @value{version}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{update-month}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include ../common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@include preface.texi
@include basefs.texi
@include applayering.texi
@include patheval.texi
@include init.texi
@include mounting.texi
@include lifecycle.texi
@include imfs.texi
@include syscalls.texi
@ifinfo
@node Top, Preface, (dir), (dir)
@top filesystem

This is the online version of the RTEMS Filesystem Design Guide.

@menu
* Preface::
* Base File System::
* Applications and Functional Layering::
* Pathname Evaluation::
* System Initialization::
* Mounting and Unmounting File Systems::
* File System Lifecycle::
* In-Memory File System::
* System Call Development Notes::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@end ifinfo
@c 
@c 
@c Need to copy the emacs stuff and "trailer stuff" (index, toc) into here
@c

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, , Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@contents
@bye

