@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@node Preface, Network Task Structure and Data Flow, Top, Top
@unnumbered Preface

This document describes the RTEMS specific parts of the FreeBSD TCP/IP
stack.  Much of this documentation was written by Eric Norum
(@email{eric@@skatter.usask.ca})
of the Saskatchewan Accelerator Laboratory
who also ported the FreeBSD TCP/IP stack to RTEMS.

The following is a list of resources which should be useful in trying
to understand Ethernet:

@itemize @bullet

@item @cite{Charles Spurgeon's Ethernet Web Site}

"This site provides extensive information about Ethernet
(IEEE 802.3) local area network (LAN) technology. Including
the original 10 Megabit per second (Mbps) system, the 100 Mbps
Fast Ethernet system (802.3u), and the Gigabit Ethernet system (802.3z)."
The URL is:
@ifset use-html
(@uref{http://www.ethermanage.com/ethernet/ethernet.html,http://www.ethermanage.com/ethernet/ethernet.html})
@end ifset
@ifclear use-html
(http://www.ethermanage.com/ethernet/ethernet.html)
@end ifclear

@item @cite{TCP/IP Illustrated, Volume 1 : The Protocols} by
by W. Richard Stevens (ISBN: 0201633469)

This book provides detailed introduction to TCP/IP and includes diagnostic
programs which are publicly available.

@item @cite{TCP/IP Illustrated, Volume 2 : The Implementation} by W. Richard
Stevens and Gary Wright (ISBN: 020163354X)

This book focuses on implementation issues regarding TCP/IP.  The
treat for RTEMS users is that the implementation covered is the BSD
stack with most of the source code described in detail.

@item @cite{UNIX Network Programming, Volume 1 : 2nd Edition} by W. Richard
Stevens (ISBN: 0-13-490012-X)

This book describes how to write basic TCP/IP applications, again with primary
focus on the BSD stack.

@end itemize
