@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@ifinfo
@node Preface, CPU Model Dependent Features, Top, Top
@end ifinfo
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems (RTEMS)
is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

This document discusses the VENDOR XXX
architecture dependencies in this port of RTEMS.  The XXX
family has a wide variety of CPU models within it.  The part 
numbers ...

XXX fill in some things here

It is highly recommended that the XXX
RTEMS application developer obtain and become familiar with the
documentation for the processor being used as well as the
documentation for the family as a whole.

@subheading Architecture Documents

For information on the XXX architecture,
refer to the following documents available from VENDOR
(@file{http//www.XXX.com/}):

@itemize @bullet
@item @cite{XXX Family Reference, VENDOR, PART NUMBER}.
@end itemize

@subheading MODEL SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS

For information on specific processor models and
their associated coprocessors, refer to the following documents:

@itemize  @bullet
@item @cite{XXX MODEL Manual, VENDOR, PART NUMBER}.
@item @cite{XXX MODEL Manual, VENDOR, PART NUMBER}.
@end itemize

