@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@ifinfo
@node Preface, CPU Model Dependent Features, Top, Top
@end ifinfo
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems
(RTEMS) is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

This document discusses the PowerPC architecture
dependencies in this port of RTEMS.

It is highly recommended that the PowerPC RTEMS
application developer obtain and become familiar with the
documentation for the processor being used as well as the
specification for the revision of the PowerPC architecture which
corresponds to that processor.

@subheading PowerPC Architecture Documents

For information on the PowerPC architecture, refer to
the following documents available from Motorola and IBM:

@itemize @bullet

@item @cite{PowerPC Microprocessor Family: The Programming Environment}
(Motorola Document MPRPPCFPE-01).

@item @cite{IBM PPC403GB Embedded Controller User's Manual}.

@item @cite{PoweRisControl MPC500 Family RCPU RISC Central Processing
Unit Reference Manual} (Motorola Document RCPUURM/AD).

@item @cite{PowerPC 601 RISC Microprocessor User's Manual}
(Motorola Document MPR601UM/AD).

@item @cite{PowerPC 603 RISC Microprocessor User's Manual}
(Motorola Document MPR603UM/AD).

@item @cite{PowerPC 603e RISC Microprocessor User's Manual}
(Motorola Document MPR603EUM/AD).

@item @cite{PowerPC 604 RISC Microprocessor User's Manual}
(Motorola Document MPR604UM/AD).

@item @cite{PowerPC MPC821 Portable Systems Microprocessor User's Manual}
(Motorola Document MPC821UM/AD).

@item @cite{PowerQUICC MPC860 User's Manual} (Motorola Document MPC860UM/AD).


@end itemize

Motorola maintains an on-line electronic library for the PowerPC
at the following URL:

@itemize @code{ }
@item @cite{http://www.mot.com/powerpc/library/library.html}
@end itemize

This site has a a wealth of information and examples.  Many of the
manuals are available from that site in electronic format.

@subheading PowerPC Processor Simulator Information

PSIM is a program which emulates the Instruction Set Architecture
of the PowerPC microprocessor family.  It is reely available in source
code form under the terms of the GNU General Public License (version
2 or later).  PSIM can be integrated with the GNU Debugger (gdb) to
execute and debug PowerPC executables on non-PowerPC hosts.  PSIM 
supports the addition of user provided device models which can be
used to allow one to develop and debug embedded applications using
the simulator.

The latest version of PSIM is made available to the public via
anonymous ftp at ftp://ftp.ci.com.au/pub/psim or
ftp://cambridge.cygnus.com/pub/psim.  There is also a mailing list 
at powerpc-psim@@ci.com.au.


