\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename cpu_supplement.info
@setcontentsaftertitlepage
@syncodeindex vr fn
@synindex ky cp
@paragraphindent 0
@c %**end of header

@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@c
@c   Master file for the CPU Supplement
@c

@include version.texi
@include common/setup.texi
@include common/rtems.texi

@ifset use-ascii
@dircategory RTEMS Target Supplement
@direntry
* RTEMS CPU Architecture Supplement: (cpu_supplement).
@end direntry
@end ifset

@c
@c  Title Page Stuff
@c

@c
@c  I don't really like having a short title page.  --joel
@c
@c @shorttitlepage RTEMS CPU Architecture Supplement

@setchapternewpage odd
@settitle RTEMS CPU Architecture Supplement
@titlepage
@finalout

@title RTEMS CPU Architecture Supplement
@subtitle Edition @value{EDITION}, for RTEMS @value{VERSION}
@sp 1
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author On-Line Applications Research Corporation
@page
@include common/cpright.texi
@end titlepage

@c  This prevents a black box from being printed on "overflow" lines.
@c  The alternative is to rework a sentence to avoid this problem.

@contents

@include preface.texi
@include general.texi
@include arm.texi
@include avr.texi
@include bfin.texi
@include i386.texi
@include lm32.texi
@include m68k.texi
@include mips.texi
@include powerpc.texi
@include sh.texi
@include sparc.texi
@include sparc64.texi
@node Top, Preface, (dir), (dir)
@top RTEMS CPU Architecture Supplement

@menu
* Preface::
* Port Specific Information::
* ARM Specific Information::
* Atmel AVR Specific Information::
* Blackfin Specific Information::
* Intel/AMD x86 Specific Information::
* Lattice Mico32 Specific Information::
* M68xxx and Coldfire Specific Information::
* MIPS Specific Information::
* PowerPC Specific Information::
* SuperH Specific Information::
* SPARC Specific Information::
* SPARC-64 Specific Information::
* Command and Variable Index::
* Concept Index::
@end menu

@node Command and Variable Index, Concept Index, , Top
@unnumbered Command and Variable Index

There are currently no Command and Variable Index entries.

@c @printindex fn

@node Concept Index, , Command and Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

There are currently no Concept Index entries.
@c @printindex cp

@bye

