@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1989-2011.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.

@node Preface, Port Specific Information, Top, Top
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems
(RTEMS) is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

Each architecture represents a CPU family and usually there are
a wide variety of CPU models within it.  These models share a
common Instruction Set Architecture (ISA) which often varies
based upon some well-defined rules.  There are often
multiple implementations of the ISA and these may be from
one or multiple vendors.

On top of variations in the ISA, there may also be variations
which occur when a CPU core implementation is combined with
a set of peripherals to form a system on chip.  For example,
there are many ARM CPU models from numerous semiconductor
vendors and a wide variety of peripherals.  But at the
ISA level, they share a common compatibility.

RTEMS depends upon this core similarity across the CPU models
and leverages that to minimize the source code that is specific
to any particular CPU core implementation or CPU model.

This manual is separate and distinct from the RTEMS Porting
Guide.  That manual is a guide on porting RTEMS to a new
architecture.  This manual is focused on the more mundane
CPU architecture specific issues that may impact
application development.  For example, if you need to write
a subroutine in assembly language, it is critical to understand
the calling conventions for the target architecture.

The first chapter in this manual describes these issues 
in general terms.  In a sense, it is posing the questions
one should be aware may need to be answered and understood
when porting an RTEMS application to a new architecture. 
Each subsequent chapter gives the answers to those questions
for a particular CPU architecture.
