@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-2002.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@ifinfo
@node Preface, CPU Model Dependent Features, Top, Top
@end ifinfo
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems (RTEMS)
is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

This document discusses the Motorola MC68xxx
architecture dependencies in this port of RTEMS.  The MC68xxx
family has a wide variety of CPU models within it.  The part
numbers for these models are generally divided into MC680xx and
MC683xx.  The MC680xx models are more general purpose processors
with no integrated peripherals.  The MC683xx models, on the
other hand, are more specialized and have a variety of
peripherals on chip including sophisticated timers and serial
communications controllers.

It is highly recommended that the Motorola MC68xxx
RTEMS application developer obtain and become familiar with the
documentation for the processor being used as well as the
documentation for the family as a whole.

@subheading Architecture Documents

For information on the Motorola MC68xxx architecture,
refer to the following documents available from Motorola
(@file{http//www.moto.com/}):

@itemize @bullet
@item @cite{M68000 Family Reference, Motorola, FR68K/D}.
@end itemize

@subheading MODEL SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS

For information on specific processor models and
their associated coprocessors, refer to the following documents:

@itemize  @bullet
@item @cite{MC68020 User's Manual, Motorola, MC68020UM/AD}.

@item @cite{MC68881/MC68882 Floating-Point Coprocessor User's
Manual, Motorola, MC68881UM/AD}.
@end itemize

