@c
@c  COPYRIGHT (c) 1988-1999.
@c  On-Line Applications Research Corporation (OAR).
@c  All rights reserved.
@c
@c  $Id$
@c

@ifinfo
@node Preface, CPU Model Dependent Features, Top, Top
@end ifinfo
@unnumbered Preface

The Real Time Executive for Multiprocessor Systems (RTEMS)
is designed to be portable across multiple processor
architectures.  However, the nature of real-time systems makes
it essential that the application designer understand certain
processor dependent implementation details.  These processor
dependencies include calling convention, board support package
issues, interrupt processing, exact RTEMS memory requirements,
performance data, header files, and the assembly language
interface to the executive.

This document discusses the Texas Instrument C3x/C4x
architecture dependencies in this port of RTEMS.  The C3x/C4x
family has a wide variety of CPU models within it.  The following
CPU model numbers could be supported by this port:

@itemize
@item C30 - TMSXXX
@item C31 - TMSXXX
@item C32 - TMSXXX
@item C41 - TMSXXX
@item C44 - TMSXXX
@end itemize

Initiially, this port does not include full support for C4x models.
Primarily, the C4x specific implementations of interrupt flag and
mask management routines have not been completed.

It is highly recommended that the RTEMS application developer obtain
and become familiar with the documentation for the processor being
used as well as the documentation for the family as a whole.

@subheading Architecture Documents

For information on the Texas Instruments C3x/C4x architecture,
refer to the following documents available from VENDOR
(@file{http//www.ti.com/}):

@itemize @bullet
@item @cite{XXX Family Reference, Texas Instruments, PART NUMBER}.
@end itemize

@subheading MODEL SPECIFIC DOCUMENTS

For information on specific processor models and
their associated coprocessors, refer to the following documents:

@itemize  @bullet
@item @cite{XXX MODEL Manual, Texas Instruments, PART NUMBER}.
@item @cite{XXX MODEL Manual, Texas Instruments, PART NUMBER}.
@end itemize

